Let's take a little
time to discuss
a concept that would help you
throughout your security career:
having a security mindset.
In previous courses, we discussed
various threats, risks,
and vulnerabilities and
how they can impact
organizational operations
and the people
served by those organizations.
These concepts are
key considerations
when thinking about having
a security mindset.
You'll have to recognize not
only what you're defending,
but what or who you're
defending against.
For example, it's important to
recognize the types
of assets that are
essential to maintaining
an organization's
business functions,
along with types of threats,
risks, and vulnerabilities that
can negatively
impact those assets.
And that's what having a security
mindset is all about.
A security mindset
is the ability
to evaluate risk and constantly
seek out and identify
the potential or actual
breach of a system,
application, or data.
Earlier in the program,
we discussed threats, risks,
and vulnerabilities
that are posed by
social engineering
attacks, such as phishing.
These attacks are
designed to compromise
an organization's assets to help
the threat actor or actors gain
access to sensitive information.
Using our security mindset can
help prevent these
types of attacks.
It's important that
we're constantly staying
up-to-date with the kinds of attacks
that are happening.
To do this, it's good to develop
a habit of seeking out
information regarding
the latest security threats
or vulnerabilities.
As you do this, new ideas for
protecting company
data may come to mind.
Security is an
everyday objective
for every security
team in the industry.
So having a security
mindset helps analysts
defend against the constant
pressure from attackers.
That mindset can make
you think: "Every click of
the mouse has the potential
to lead to a security breach."
That level of scrutiny as
a security professional
helps you prepare for
the worst-case scenario,
even if it doesn't happen.
Entry-level analysts can help
protect low-level assets,
such as an organization's
guest WiFi network, and
high-importance assets, such
as intellectual property,
trade secrets, PII, and
even financial information.
Your security mindset
allows you to
protect all levels of assets.
However, if an
incident does occur,
that doesn't mean you respond to
all incidents in the same way.
So we'll discuss incident
prioritization
a little later in the course.
Having a strong security mindset
can help set you apart from
other candidates as you
prepare to enter the
security profession.
It may even be a good idea to
reference that foundation
in future job interviews.
We'll discuss
interview preparation
in detail, later in the course.
Coming up, we'll focus on
incident detection
in greater detail.